migrating node.js APM configuration (#16219)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/nodejs.md

### Tagging

`DD_ENV`
: **Configuration**: `env`<br>

> **Default**: Defaults to the environment configured in the Datadog Agent<br>

Reviewer: Is the `Defaults to` part consistent with our other languages? Seems a bit redundant to me. 😅

Set an application's environment (for example, `prod`, `pre-prod`, and `stage`).

`DD_SERVICE`
: **Configuration**: `service`<br>
**Default**: Defaults to the `name` field in `package.json`<br>
The service name used for this program.

`DD_VERSION`
: **Configuration**: `version`<br>
**Default**: Defaults to the `version` field in `package.json`<br>
The version number of the application.

`DD_TAGS`
: **Configuration**: `tags`<br>
**Default**: `{}`<br>
Set global tags that are applied to all spans and runtime metrics. When passed as an environment variable, the format is `key:value,key:value`. When setting this programmatically, the format is `tracer.init({ tags: { foo: 'bar' } })`.

It is recommended that you use `DD_ENV`, `DD_SERVICE`, and `DD_VERSION` to set `env`, `service`, and `version` for your services. Review the [Unified Service Tagging][1] documentation for recommendations on configuring these environment variables.

### Instrumentation

`DD_TRACE_ENABLED`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: `true`<br>

> Whether to enable dd-trace. Setting this to `false` will disable all features of the library.

Reviewer: We should probably have a discussion about if it's confusing to document both `DD_TRACE_ENABLED` and `DD_TRACING_ENABLED`. Can we make a different env var for the global disable to make the distinction clearer and deprecate this one?

Author: I agree that its confusing. At first glance it seems to be a mistake on our part for offering both. @Qard @rochdev do either of you know how these two features differ?

Author: I don't think we can deprecate `DD_TRACE_ENABLED` as it appears to be a Datadog standard that is used by other libraries. We could rename `DD_TRACING_ENABLED` though.

Author: Some APM folks across different teams are discussing the future of these values. We'll likely change wording and rename one in the future.

**Default**: `false`<br>
Enable debug logging in the tracer.

`DD_TRACING_ENABLED`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: `true`<br>
Whether to enable tracing.

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_URL`
: **Configuration**: `url`<br>
**Default**: `http://localhost:8126`<br>
The URL of the Trace Agent that the tracer submits to. Takes priority over hostname and port, if set. Supports Unix Domain Sockets in combination with the `apm_config.receiver_socket` in your `datadog.yaml` file, or the `DD_APM_RECEIVER_SOCKET` environment variable.

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_HOSTNAME`
: **Configuration**: `hostname`<br>
**Default**: `localhost`<br>
The address of the Agent that the tracer submits to.

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_PORT`
: **Configuration**: `port`<br>
**Default**: `8126`<br>
The port of the Trace Agent that the tracer submits to.

`DD_DOGSTATSD_PORT`
: **Configuration**: `dogstatsd.port`<br>
**Default**: `8125`<br>
The port of the DogStatsD Agent that metrics are submitted to.

`DD_LOGS_INJECTION`
: **Configuration**: `logInjection`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Enable automatic injection of trace IDs in logs for supported logging libraries.

`DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`
: **Configuration**: `sampleRate`<br>

> **Default**: Defers the decision to the agent.<br>
> Controls the ingestion sample rate (between 0.0 and 1.0) between the agent and the backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Default**: Defers the decision to the Agent.<br>
Controls the ingestion sample rate (between 0.0 and 1.0) between the Agent and the backend.
```

`DD_TRACE_RATE_LIMIT`
: **Configuration**: `rateLimit`<br>
**Default**: Defaults to `1.0` when `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE` is set. Otherwise, delegates rate limiting to the Datadog Agent.
Ratio of spans to sample as a float between `0.0` and `1.0`. <br>

`DD_TRACE_SAMPLING_RULES`
: **Configuration**: `samplingRules`<br>
**Default**: `[]`<br>

> Sampling rules to apply to priority sampling. A JSON array of objects. Each object must have a `sample_rate` value between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive). Each rule has an optional `name` and `service` fields, which are regexes to match against a trace's `service` and `name`. Rules are applied in configured order to determine the trace's sample rate. If omitted, the tracer defers to the Agent to dynamically adjust sample rate across all traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sampling rules to apply to priority sampling. A JSON array of objects. Each object must have a `sample_rate` value between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive). Each rule has optional `name` and `service` fields, which are regexes to match against a trace's `service` and `name`. Rules are applied in configured order to determine the trace's sample rate. If omitted, the tracer defers to the Agent to dynamically adjust sample rate across all traces.
```

Also, name and service are regex _strings_ aren't they? Do we support actual RegExp instances? Should maybe clarify that.

Author: Yeah, looks like strings

`DD_SPAN_SAMPLING_RULES`
: **Configuration**: `spanSamplingRules`<br>
**Default**: `[]`<br>

> Span sampling rules for ingesting single spans, in cases where the whole trace is dropped. A JSON array of objects. Rules are applied in configured order to determine the span's sample rate. The `sample_rate` value must be between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Span sampling rules for ingesting single spans even if the trace they are in is dropped. A JSON array of objects. Rules are applied in configured order to determine the span's sample rate. The `sample_rate` value must be between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive).
```

Reviewer 2: I think this captures what @Qard was saying?

Reviewer: Ah, yep, that captures it. Answered separately already because GitHub UI is confusing and breaks up comments from separate reviews. 😅

Author: I saw Stephen's explanation and applied that one. I think either helped clarify!

> Span sampling rules for ingesting single spans, in cases where the whole trace is dropped. A JSON array of objects. Rules are applied in configured order to determine the span's sample rate. The `sample_rate` value must be between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive).

Reviewer: Maybe clarify that it is to _keep_ certain spans despite the trace being dropped? Reads a little weird to me like you can sample individual spans but then it will get dropped anyway for some reason. 🤔

Author: I don't have a clue how it works, just copypasta from existing sources. How would you like it rewritten?

Reviewer: Something like this, maybe?

```suggestion
Span sampling rules to keep individual spans when the rest of the trace would otherwise be dropped. A JSON array of objects. Rules are applied in configured order to determine the span's sample rate. The `sample_rate` value must be between 0.0 and 1.0 (inclusive).
```

For more information, see [Ingestion Mechanisms][3].<br>
**Example:**<br>
  - Set the span sample rate to 50% for the service `my-service` and operation name `http.request`, up to 50 traces per second: `'[{"service": "my-service", "name": "http.request", "sample_rate":0.5, "max_per_second": 50}]'`

`DD_SPAN_SAMPLING_RULES_FILE`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: N/A<br>

> Points to a JSON file that contains the span sampling rules. `DD_SPAN_SAMPLING_RULES` takes precedence over this variable.

Reviewer: Maybe some note like "see DD_SPAN_SAMPLING_RULES for what this does" would be an improvement?

`DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED`
: **Configuration**: `runtimeMetrics`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Whether to enable capturing runtime metrics. Port `8125` (or configured with `DD_DOGSTATSD_PORT`) must be opened on the Agent for UDP.

`DD_SERVICE_MAPPING`
: **Configuration**: `serviceMapping`<br>
**Default**: N/A<br>
**Example**: `mysql:my-mysql-service-name-db,pg:my-pg-service-name-db`<br>
Provide service names for each plugin. Accepts comma separated `plugin:service-name` pairs, with or without spaces.

`DD_TRACE_DISABLED_PLUGINS`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: N/A<br>
**Example**: `DD_TRACE_DISABLED_PLUGINS=express,dns`<br>
A comma-separated string of integration names automatically disabled when the tracer is initialized.

`DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL`
: **Configuration**: `logLevel`<br>
**Default**: `debug`<br>
A string for the minimum log level for the tracer to use when debug logging is enabled, for example, `error`, `debug`.

> Flush Interval

Author: Note that not all configurations have associated environment variables.

Reviewer: Should we _have_ an env var to this? Do _other_ languages have an env var for this?

Author: I've been wondering how we decide which configuration settings get env vars and which are exposed via config object. It sounds like there's no strong convention.

Author: Python seems to have `DD_PROFILING_UPLOAD_INTERVAL` which seems similar:
https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-py/blob/0ba3e299475df5f670d8d019a380526c039df305/ddtrace/profiling/scheduler.py#L23

: **Configuration**: `flushInterval`<br>
**Default**: `2000`<br>

> Interval in milliseconds at which the tracer submits traces to the agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Interval in milliseconds at which the tracer submits traces to the Agent.
```

`DD_TRACE_PARTIAL_FLUSH_MIN_SPANS`
: **Configuration**: `flushMinSpans`<br>
**Default**: `1000`<br>
Number of spans before partially exporting a trace. This prevents keeping all the spans in memory for very large traces.

`DD_TRACE_OBFUSCATION_QUERY_STRING_REGEXP`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: N/A<br>

> A regex to redact sensitive data from incoming requests' query string reported in the `http.url` tag (matches are replaced with `<redacted>`). Can be an empty string to disable redaction or `.*` to redact all query string. **WARNING: This regex executes for every incoming request on an unsafe input (url) so make sure you use a safe regex.** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A regex to redact sensitive data from incoming requests' query string reported in the `http.url` tag (matches are replaced with `<redacted>`). Can be an empty string to disable redaction or `.*` to redact all query string. **WARNING: This regex executes for every incoming request on an unsafe input (url) so make sure you use a safe regex.** 
```

`DD_TRACE_CLIENT_IP_HEADER`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: N/A<br>
Custom header name to source the `http.client_ip` tag from.

DNS Lookup Function
: **Configuration**: `lookup`<br>
**Default**: `require('dns').lookup`<br>

> Custom function for DNS lookups when sending requests to the agent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom function for DNS lookups when sending requests to the Agent.
```

> Custom function for DNS lookups when sending requests to the agent.

Reviewer: What is the reason for exposing this? Do we actually _want_ this documented?

Author: Good question for @rochdev e8e503a90e65bbc6f5f407c26e9a02b51576ba63.

Reviewer 3: [The PR](https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-js/pull/1003) clarifies it.

Reviewer: Maybe we can take some of the explanation from Roch to make the purpose of this setting clearer? If _I_ don't know what it's for and I literally work on this library, I can't imagine some random dev reading the docs and having any idea why they might want to use that. 😅

Author: I've updated this with content based on Roch's original explanation.

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_PROTOCOL_VERSION`
: **Configuration**: `protocolVersion`<br>
**Default**: `0.4`<br>

> Protocol version to use for requests to the agent. The version configured must be supported by the agent version installed or all traces are dropped.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Protocol version to use for requests to the Agent. The version configured must be supported by the Agent version installed or all traces are dropped.
```

`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`
: **Configuration**: `profiling`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Whether to enable profiling.

`DD_TRACE_REPORT_HOSTNAME`
: **Configuration**: `reportHostname`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Whether to report the system's hostname for each trace. When disabled, the hostname of the agent is used instead.

Experimental Features
: **Configuration**: `experimental`<br>
**Default**: `{}`<br>

> Experimental features can be enabled all at once using boolean `true` or individually using key/value pairs. Contact Datadog to learn more about the available experimental features.

Reviewer 2: As the other commenter suggested, it might be a good choice to keep this out of the official docs. If you decide to keep it in though, it should say
```suggestion
Experimental features can be enabled all at once using Boolean `true` or individually using key-value pairs. [Contact Support][4] to learn more about the available experimental features.
```
plus add the following link URL at the bottom of this file:

```
[4]: /help/
```

And update the confluence page that called "The public docs say contact support" with the information support should provide when someone contacts them about this.

> Experimental features can be enabled all at once using boolean `true` or individually using key/value pairs. Contact Datadog to learn more about the available experimental features.

Reviewer: I'm very slightly -1 on the capital-B Boolean as JavaScript typically describes primitive types in all lowercase.

```js
typeof true === 'boolean'
```

> Experimental features can be enabled all at once using boolean `true` or individually using key/value pairs. Please contact us to learn more about the available experimental features.

Reviewer: I feel like a lot of users will probably just blindly enable all without talking to us. Should be document this at all?

Author: I suppose it's up to the team. There's no hint as to what the features are in this documentation page but users can certainly find them in the codebase.

Reviewer: Well, by the sentence it sounds like they can just do `experimental: true` to turn on _everyting_. That's what worries me. I think many users will just turn everything on without even looking. 😬

Author: Ah, you're right, whoever wrote that text originally intended `experimental:true` to work and to set each individual flag. I agree that it would be dangerous.

I looked through the code and I couldn't see how it could work. So I ran the code and set that flag to `true` and none of the experiments were enabled. I'll update this to remove the text about enabling all experiments.

Automatically Instrument External Libraries
: **Configuration**: `plugins`<br>
**Default**: `true`<br>
Whether or not to enable automatic instrumentation of external libraries using the built-in plugins.

`DD_TRACE_STARTUP_LOGS`
: **Configuration**: `startupLogs`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Enable tracer startup configuration and diagnostic log.

`DD_DBM_PROPAGATION_MODE`
: **Configuration**: `dbmPropagationMode`<br>
**Default**: `'disabled'`<br>

> To enable DBM to APM link using tag injection, can be set to `'service'` or `'full'`. `'service'` enables the connection between DB and APM services; while `'full'` enables connection between database spans with database query events. This is available for Postgres with plans to support additional databases in the future.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable DBM to APM link using tag injection, can be set to `'service'` or `'full'`. The `'service'` option enables the connection between DBM and APM services. The `'full'` option enables connection between database spans with database query events. Available for Postgres.
```

`DD_TRACE_CLIENT_IP_HEADER`
: **Configuration**: N/A<br>
**Default**: N/A<br>
Custom header name to source the `http.client_ip` tag from.

DNS Lookup Function
: **Configuration**: `lookup`<br>
**Default**: `require('dns').lookup`<br>
Custom function for DNS lookups when sending requests to the Agent. Some setups have hundreds of services running, each doing DNS lookups on every flush interval, causing scaling issues. Override this to provide your own caching or resolving mechanism.

`DD_TRACE_AGENT_PROTOCOL_VERSION`
: **Configuration**: `protocolVersion`<br>
**Default**: `0.4`<br>
Protocol version to use for requests to the Agent. The version configured must be supported by the Agent version installed or all traces are dropped.

`DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`
: **Configuration**: `profiling`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Whether to enable profiling.

`DD_TRACE_REPORT_HOSTNAME`
: **Configuration**: `reportHostname`<br>
**Default**: `false`<br>
Whether to report the system's hostname for each trace. When disabled, the hostname of the Agent is used instead.

Experimental Features
: **Configuration**: `experimental`<br>
**Default**: `{}`<br>

> Experimental features can be enabled by adding predefined keys with a value of `true`. [Contact Sup[4]: /help/port][4] to learn more about the available experimental features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Experimental features can be enabled by adding predefined keys with a value of `true`. [Contact Support][4] to learn more about the available experimental features.
```
